# TKSeminar
A repository for our analysis of the US election 2020 discussion on twitter

## Seminar

This is a repository for the analysis of the influence of bots on the discussion of the 2020 US presidential election on twitter. The repository includes the corresponding skripts that have been used. The following abstract gives first insights about the research. Please contact the authors to access more information about the corresponding paper and data set.

## Abstract

Fake news can be a threat to fair elections.  Bots, automated accounts posing asreal users, can help spread this misinformation.  Ferrara et al. (2020) analyzed the2020 US presidential election using the popular tool "Botometer", which can detect botsusing various features such as meta data, language features and network and sentimentanalysis.  They found a significant influence of bots on the political discussion, butthe thresholds used for bot classification are questionable. This paper attempts a re-investigation by analyzing the political discussion of the 2020 US presidential electionon Twitter with stricter bot classification and a focus on sentiments, political affiliationand the influence of bots. A data set collected by Ibrahim Sabuncu (2020) is used, whichincludes 24 million tweets collected during the presidential election, of which 40,000 wereextracted for bot detection. Our research finds overall low amount of bots (1183), ofwhich a majority are Astroturf-type bots. We find no significant correlation betweenneither sentiments nor influence and bot score. Furthermore, the results have not showna party affiliation in tweeted and retweeted content. The reported low influence of Botscould be due to a lack of detection methods or the absence of bots. Further methodsto detect the influence of bots are necessary, for example the inclusion of context andgroup behavior for classification. Moreover, large scale detection should be made moreaccessible and standardized score thresholds for bot detection have to be established.
